{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf200
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Here's what I think the law should say:\
\
"You can't follow a person online without a clear invitation from them, or a court order." Simple as that. \
\
A site can still give a visitor's browser a cookie for the original purpose Lou Montulli invented them in 1994: so the site could recognize that browser when it returns. And nothing more. No third party cookies that do cross-site tracking. No cookies placed for analytic purposes that can be repurposed for targeted advertising ones (as Google does now with Google Analytics).\
\
The case would be grounded entirely in our offline experience with privacy, and with well-understood privacy tech (e.g. clothing and shelter). It would note that we don't have those protections yet online, but we do have norms that inform privacy law, and that say "don't enter other people's private spaces without their welcome."\
\
Personal technology, including computers, browsers, email, mobile devices and apps, would be classed somehow as personal private spaces and means for expressing agency. Browsers especially. Browsers should be recognized as private spaces and agents of intent. And the first intent presumed by this law should be that the browser is not where any other entity can plant tracking files.\
\
Arguments for this law should make clear that existing business based on following people around is not okay, and never was okay. That it is now normative in the extreme is no excuse. Smoking in planes and drunk driving were once normative as well.}